# Running Dinosaur

## Video Demo:  <URL HERE>

## Description:

Hi! I'm Hodei, ghodei in CS50, and this is my final project for CS50 2021 called "Running Dinosaur". I developed this project with the intention of paying homage to Google's easter egg game commonly known as "Dinosaur Game", "T-Rex Game" and "Dino Runner Game". Originally, it was a browser game built into the Google Chrome web browser. The game was created by Sebastien Gabriel in 2014 and can be accessed by pressing the space bar when offline on Google Chrome.

After learning many things throughout this course, I personally enjoyed programming in Python, which is why I chose this programming language to create this project.

If you played the original game before, you would already know that it is a fairly simple game, in which the main mission is to run endlessly trying not to die dodging the cacti and pterodactyls that are randomly generated by the game.

I took the main idea of ​​the game and improved it by adding color to the screen, adding music to the main game, and implementing a couple of features, like being able to pause the game, exit it at any time, and restart it when paused, using the assigned keyboard shortcuts.

Focusing now on the technical part of the program, I divided it into a few different sub-programs, each with its dedicated function:
-running_dinosaur.py: this is the main file of the program; most of the files are linked to this program and this is where the "main story" is basically told.
-config.py: This is where all the resources are loaded and allocated, to be used by the other program files. It is also the place where screen size, FPS, and background color are set.
-__init__.py: there are three different startup files in this project, and the function of all of them is to initialize the different interfaces of the game, each folder has a different version of this file.

Apart from the files mentioned above, there is a folder called "modules" in the main folder, which contains two subfolders, each with different applets:
* interfaces folder:
-endgame.py and startgame.py: These two files are responsible for establishing what is on the screen before the game starts (before pressing the space bar to start the actual game) and after the game ends (the dinosaur go dead).
* sprite folder:
-dinosaur.py, environment.py and obstacles.py: The main function of these three files is to establish the behavior of each of the objects in this game. Dinosaur.py tells what the dinosaur character has to do in each game situation and how he has to react to them, it also determines the character's animation. Environment.py focuses on the harmless objects in the game such as the ground, clouds and the high score board, it manages how they act when on screen and how they are animated. Finally, hinder.py focuses on threatening objects in the game, such as cacti and pterodactyls, as with the last two files, it controls how these objects behave in the game and how they look when they are on the screen.

The rest of the files are media files, audio and images, that are contained in a main folder called "resources" and these files are used to give life to the entire game.

So this was my CS50 final project and I hope you enjoyed the game! Thank you :)

###### Environment:

OS: Windows10
Python: Python3.5 + necessary dependencies

###### Usage:

run "python3 Game7.py"

###### In-game Controls:

UP or Spacebar = Jump or Unpause
DOWN = Duck
P = Pause
R = Restart (while paused)
ESC = Quit game

###### Credits

Most of the sprites in the game - Google and Sebastien Gabriel
Death song - Mrthenoronha (Death Song 8 Bit)
Main game song - Mrthenoronha (8bit Music for Game)
Restart game button - rrcaseyr (pixel art restart button)
Spacebar button - flixarcade